Umbraco Engage: update IP filtering docs to Block traffic (v17 & v18) (#8259)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 18/umbraco-engage/marketers-and-editors/settings/ip-filtering.md

---
description: Use block rules to keep unwanted traffic out of your Engage analytics.
---

# Block traffic

Block traffic helps you keep your analytics clean. Visits you do not want in your reports, such as your own team, an agency, or automated bots, inflate your numbers. A block rule stops matching requests from being counted, so your reports reflect real visitors.

Block traffic does **not** stop anyone from using your website. The page still loads normally. A blocked request is only left out of your Engage analytics.

{% hint style="info" %}

If you used **IP filtering** before, nothing is lost. Your existing filters were moved over automatically and now appear here as **IP address** rules.

{% endhint %}

## Where to find it

> Open the Engage section and go to **Settings** > **Block traffic**. The overview lists every rule you have set up. Before you add any, it shows "No rules have been added yet."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the Engage section and go to **Settings** > **Block traffic**. The overview lists every rule you have set up. If you don't have any rule set up, it shows "No rules have been added yet."
```

Author: Applied, and mirrored to v17.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/Settings-BlockTraffic.png" alt="The Block traffic overview listing configured rules"><figcaption><p>The Block traffic overview</p></figcaption></figure>

## Deciding what to block

The **Suspicious Activity** view, next to Block traffic in Settings, surfaces requests that behave differently from normal visitors, such as automated browsers. Use that view to spot candidates worth turning into a block rule.

## Creating a rule

> Select **Create rule**, fill in the fields, and select **Save and close**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **Create rule**, fill in the below mentioned fields, and select **Save and close**:
```

Author: Applied, and mirrored to v17.

* **Name**: a short name for the rule.
* **Description**: a short note about what the rule is for.
* **Type**: what part of the request the rule looks at. See [Rule types](#rule-types).
* **Condition**: how the value is compared. See [Conditions](#conditions).
* **Value**: what to match against, for example an IP address or part of a user agent. With the **List** condition this becomes a **Values** field where you add entries one by one.

> * **Active**: whether the rule is switched on. A new rule is active by default, and you can switch a rule off later without deleting it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Name**: A short name for the rule.
* **Description**: A short note about what the rule is for.
* **Type**: What part of the request the rule looks at. See [Rule types](#rule-types).
* **Condition**: How the value is compared. See [Conditions](#conditions).
* **Value**: What to match against, for example an IP address or part of a user agent. With the **List** condition this becomes a **Values** field where you add entries one by one.
* **Active**: Whether the rule is switched on. A new rule is active by default, and you can switch a rule off later without deleting it.
```

Author: Applied (descriptions capitalized), and mirrored to v17.

The new rule then appears in the overview.

> **Example, exclude your own visits:** set **Type** to *IP address* and **Condition** to *Equals*. Put your office IP address in **Value** (your IT team can tell you the public one). Leave **Active** on and select **Save and close**. From then on, visits from that address stay out of your reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example: Exclude your own visits** 

1. Set **Type** to *IP address* and **Condition** to *Equals*. 
2. Put your office IP address in **Value** (your IT team can tell you the public one). 
3. Leave **Active** on.
4. Select **Save and close**. 

From now on, visits from that address will stay out of your reports.
```

Author: Applied as the numbered list, and mirrored to v17. Note the file was renamed to `block-traffic.md`, so this now lives in `block-traffic.md`.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/Settings-BlockTraffic-CreateRule.png" alt="Creating a block rule with the name, description, type, condition and value fields"><figcaption><p>Creating a rule</p></figcaption></figure>

## Rule types

* **IP address**: the visitor's IP address. Enter a single address (for example `203.0.113.10`) or a range that covers a whole network (for example `203.0.113.0/24`). Ask your IT team if you are unsure which to use.
* **User agent**: the text a browser or bot sends to identify itself. Useful for keeping out automated clients.

> * **Country**: the country a visit comes from, based on the visitor's detected location. The **Location** report under Analytics shows the country values Engage records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **IP address**: The visitor's IP address. Enter a single address (for example `203.0.113.10`) or a range that covers a whole network (for example `203.0.113.0/24`). Ask your IT team if you are unsure which to use.
* **User agent**: The text a browser or bot sends to identify itself. Useful for keeping out automated clients.
* **Country**: The country a visit comes from, based on the visitor's detected location. The **Location** report under Analytics shows the country values Engage records.
```

Author: Applied, and mirrored to v17.

## Conditions

When you choose a **Type**, the **Condition** list updates to show only the options that apply to it.

| Type | List | Equals | Contains | Regular expression |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| IP address | ✓ | ✓ | | ✓ |
| User agent | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |
| Country | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |

* **List**: matches when the value is one of the entries you add.
* **Equals**: matches when the value is exactly what you provide.
* **Contains**: matches when the value contains the text you provide.

> * **Regular expression**: matches the value against a pattern. This option is advanced; leave it to a developer if you are not familiar with regular expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **List**: Matches when the value is one of the entries you add.
* **Equals**: Matches when the value is exactly what you provide.
* **Contains**: Matches when the value contains the text you provide.
* **Regular expression**: Matches the value against a pattern. This option is advanced; leave it to a developer if you are not familiar with regular expressions.
```

Author: Applied, and mirrored to v17.
